now in space inky darkness between
blinding points of light
does a great job it hides black holes
gaping hungry and scaring their
blackness makes it really difficult for
astronomers
to find detailed information about these
space monsters
when a powerful and massive star reaches
the end of its life
it can't just fade into nothingness one
of the most likely scenarios
the star will run out of its nuclear
fuel then
in a blazing flash of light it'll
collapse under its own gravity
if the star was large enough it'll turn
into a black hole
there's a hypothetical type of black
hole called primordial
scientists have never gotten any real
proof of their existence
these holes are insanely old and quite
tiny
by black hole standards that is
astronomers believe they could appear
several milliseconds after the big bag
at that time stars and galaxies weren't
born yet
it means primordial black holes probably
witnessed the entire history of the
universe
by now the smallest primordial black
holes have most likely evaporated away
but the bigger ones can still be
scattered out there in space
but how did primordial black holes
appear in the first place
in the very beginning space wasn't the
same
in some regions it was hotter in others
cooler
and some areas were extremely dense
scientists believe
these dense spots could collapse into
primordial black holes
the most curious thing though these
holes might be so small
exactly because they popped up right
after the big bang
the longer it took a black hole to
appear the larger it was
the mass difference between older
smaller and younger bigger black holes
was
incredible compare the mass 1000 times
greater than our sun's and that of a
jelly bean
now you get it there was a theory that
primordial black holes could actually be
dark matter this matter is believed to
make up around 80 percent of the mass of
the observable
universe astronomers can't see this
bizarre ingredient directly
since it doesn't emit light or any kind
of energy
the idea remained unpopular for decades
but recently
scientists have realized there are many
more black holes in the universe than
they used to think
and it means the theory might actually
work
and the vast and still hidden from us
population of big bang black holes
could not only make up but be dark
matter
after all astronomers haven't discovered
a single dark matter particle yet
even after decades of searching
some scientists argue that dark matter
can't be tons of multi-sized
primordial black holes they would
collide far too
often for this to work out others object
that black holes might exist in
twos and then a third one can always
approach the pair
and replace one of the initial holes
after all our universe is swarming with
black holes
and there's no lack of them this process
would repeat again
and again meaning there would be almost
no merges or collisions
primordial black holes might stay in
clusters the size of the distance
between our sun and the nearest star
each of these clusters can be home to
thousands of black holes
all crammed together a 30 solar mass
monster of a black hole might sit at the
center with more common stellar ones
occupying the rest of the space
such clusters can be everywhere
astronomers think dark matter is
but so far this is still only an
exciting
theory and some scientists don't support
it yet
more data is needed now black holes
sometimes behave like massive galactic
volcanoes
from time to time they flare up but
instead of spewing lava
they produce enormous amounts of energy
and it makes gaping holes in the
surrounding material and gas
a short while ago scientists discovered
one of the largest craters in the
universe
radio and x-ray telescopes detected a
supermassive black hole
that threw a temper tantrum many many
many years ago
it happened in a galaxy cluster about
390 million light years away from earth
the crater left behind which was
actually a hole punched in the cluster's
hot gas
could fit 15 milky way galaxies
whoa recently astronomers have found out
that one of the most massive stars in
the neighborhood
might just have vanished the star used
to hover in space
75 million light years away from earth
it's usually too
far away for scientists to clearly see
individual stars
unless they're really massive like the
one we're talking about
it was gigantic and shining two and a
half million times brighter than our sun
for the last time astronomers saw the
stars light in 2011
but when they decided to examine it more
closely
several years later they couldn't find
it
such huge stars usually go out in an
extremely bright supernova
but nothing here which puzzled the
scientist to no end
there's a theory it collapsed into a
black hole and it happened without
triggering a supernova
first it does occur among stars nearing
the end of their lives
but very very rarely kb141b
is a planet outside of our solar system
at first glance
it's not that different from earth it
has liquid oceans that evaporate into
clouds
condense and get back to the surface as
rain
but instead of water this all happens
with
rock the surface of the exoplanet is
covered with lava seas
tens of miles deep the temperature on
k2141b
reaches 5000 degrees during the day it's
hot enough for the magma in the oceans
to vaporize into the atmosphere
then supersonic winds which can move at
the speed of one mile per second
carry this rock vapor to the planet's
night side
the vaporized magma cools down becomes
liquid again
and falls as a rocky rain wow
looks like we're gonna need a bigger
bumper shoot
a star in the galaxy gsn069
might turn into a planet the size of
jupiter in the next
trillion years or so all thanks to the
star's regular encounters with a black
hole
first astronomers noticed bizarre x-ray
bursts
those were super bright and went off
every nine hours
after examining this phenomenon the
researchers realized
it was a star getting flung in a unique
orbit around a black hole
and the flashes they saw were the
material being slurped off the star's
surface it happened every time the star
darted past its greedy host
over millions of years the black hole
has already transformed the red giant
into a white dwarf and the process isn't
going to stop
anytime soon astronomers have recently
discovered some traces of phosphine
in venus's atmosphere on earth this
colorless and flammable gas
is often found near microbes that's why
a new theory claims
there might be life on venus but if
there is
it could only appear high in the clouds
because
no living organism would be able to
survive the planet's extreme environment
its surface is incredibly dry with no
liquid water
and the pressure 90 times greater than
that on earth's surface
the temperatures there reach almost 900
degrees
hot enough to melt certain metals so
that's a no
methane a gas that's usually produced by
living things
was found on mars in 2013. european
space agency's mars express spacecraft
detected it in gale crater near the
martian equator
this discovery might one day answer the
question if there's life on mars
asteroid 2019 okay scared scientists by
sneaking up on our planet in july of
this rather large rock up to 400 feet
across
appeared seemingly out of nowhere it
traveled
uncomfortably close to the earth a mere
000 miles away that's less than
one-fifth of the distance to the moon
the sun's outer layer is way hotter than
its surface
the temperatures vary from 10 000
degrees close to the surface
and a mind boggling one million degrees
in the corona
that's the sun's outermost layer the
reason for this phenomenon might be
nano flares those are regular powerful
bursts of heat from the star
another theory blames the layer that
lies just beneath the sun's surface
it seems to generate a weak magnetic
field that's why
when the energy from this layer leaves
the sun it heats the corona through a
mesh of magnetic branches and roots
the moon might still be shrinking our
planet's natural satellite has become
150 feet
skinnier than it used to be several
hundred million years ago
if its insides keep cooling it might
explain the quakes
shaking the moon's surface in 2019
nasa's insight lander whose goal was to
study the interior of mars
registered the first mars quake ever
these quakes were coming fast about two
per day
most of them were tiny you wouldn't even
feel them if they happened on our planet
so far more than 300 marsquakes have
been detected
those are the first quakes on any space
body other than the earth and the moon
another mysterious phenomenon discovered
by the mission
was bizarre magnetic pulses they
occurred
every midnight around the lander it's
still unclear what those pulses are
maybe after midnight they're going to
let it all hang out
or something pluto's atmosphere rises
much higher above the surface of the
dwarf planet than
let's say earth's it also has more than
20 layers
all of them freezing cold and extremely
condensed
oh by the way our moon also has some
sort of atmosphere
called an exosphere it consists of
helium
neon and argon it's 10 trillion times
less dense than earth's atmosphere or
you know really thin